---- HELP SECTION ON WEBSITE ----

Basic Grids - 
To create a grid, set the columns, rows, column gap, and row gap. These options determine how the grid will look, and can be previewed before adding to project in the preview area at the top of the screen. 

Values - 
Column / row values are written as their cell sizes in whole numbers (with a pt suffix), or out of a total fraction, with the denominator of that fraction being all the numerators written added up. All cell values must be separated by a space. The value entered can also be a single number to create x amount of equally sized cells.

Column / row gaps are written as a whole number

Examples -
Try the following in the column/row inputs to see how they change the grid:
1 2 3 4 5
40pt 1
20pt 1 20pt
30pt*3 2*2 1


Adding Grid To Project -
Once you are happy with your grid layout, you can add it into your Figma document. To do so, select the layer you want to apply the grid to, if not already selected, and click the “Apply Grid To Selected” button, you should see the grid over the selected layer, filled with the colour chosen in the “Cell Fill Colour”


Merging Cells -
To create more complicated grids, you can build a custom layout by clicking on the cells (in the preview) that you want. Clicking on “Apply Grid To Selected” now would only import the cells that have been selected. You can deselect a cell by right clicking on it, and you can merge multiple cells together to create a larger tile by holding on a cell and dragging it the appropriate size.


Saving Layouts - 
Saving layouts is very simple, when selecting a layer in Figma, click on the "Saved..." dropdown next to the "Apply To Selected" button. From the dropodown select "Save Current Grid" and enter the name you would like to save it under.
To edit your existing saved layouts, open the same dropdown, and select "Edit saved". You can now see all saved layouts, to delete one, simply click on the trash icon next to the appropiate row.

Auto populating created cells -
Instead of letting (easy)grid create empty shaded rectangles as cells, you may select more then one layer within Figma, which when clicking "Apply To Selected", would be used instead of the shaded rectangles.


More Help -
For more information and help, visit our website at easygrid-app.web.app. Additionally, we answer all questions posted in the figma plugin comments area.



---- DELETED THINGS ----

(Easy)grid lets you create a grid or layout in seconds with the ability to insert it onto any layer without the need to waste time doing math, allowing you to rapidly modify your layout until perfect. By using the four flexible options (columns, rows, column gap, and row gap) you can write out a layout that is the exact fit. 

you can create a grid and by also selecting a review card component, to create the grid with the review cards as cells.

 Autopopulate your layout by selecting more than one layer, allowing you to insert already created elements as the created layout cells. Letting you do things like fill up a grid with product images in a creative way in seconds by selecting the product preview layer alongside the bounding layer when clicking "Apply To Selected"

    NEWLY ADDED FEATURES

    - Save your layout and reuse them in other Figma projects to quickly insert your most common layouts

    - Quickly insert other layers as cells, by selecting more then one layer you can apply your created grid onto the first layer, with the remaining layers being used as content


grids that can be made without having to manually work out the sizing or positioning
well now that's going to be quicker then ever.


---- VERSION NOTES ----

- Added ability to populate layout cells with existing elements or components by selecting more than one layer before pressing "Apply"
- You can now save your created layouts and reuse them across Figma projects
- Some minor bug fixes

---- DESCRIPTION ON FIGMA PLUGIN PAGE ----


(Easy)grid lets you create a grid layout in seconds and place it into Figma without the math. It can also let you quickly align and scale pre-existing elements as layout-items/cells for a quicker design flow. By using the four flexible options (columns, rows, column gap, and row gap) you can write out a layout that is the exact fit and rapidly modify until perfect.

How many times have you had to create a grid or layout, and found yourself spending too much time finding the correct sizes for each element, messing around with spacing to ensure it looks perfect, or having to perfectly align it? This is where the (Easy)grid plugin comes into play.

See https://easygrid-app.web.app/ or continue reading to learn more about the plugin and about how to use it.





FEATURES



🎨 Create layouts in seconds — Create layout patterns in seconds ranging from a couple of rows or columns to creating the layout for whole tools and software.



🎛 [NEW FEATURE] Populate cells with components — When applying your layout to the selected layer, you may select more than one layer to populate the layouts' with its cells as the additional layers selected.


💾 [NEW FEATURE] Saving created layouts — Save your layout and reuse them in other Figma projects to quickly insert your most common layouts.

🗂 [NEW FEATURE] Pre-made Layouts — Select from 5 pre-made grids to make your design come to life even faster, these grids include: Golden Ratio, 12 Column Grid, iPad App With Sidebar, Notched iPhone Layout, and a Rule Of Thirds grid.

👨‍💻 Work faster, not harder — Reduce mistakes and time taken by not needing to worry about sizing or positioning your layout and letting (easy)grid handle the mathematical side of things.



📲 Insert to Figma In A Click — Insert the layout from the plugin directly over your selected Figma layer in a single click.



⏳ Remembers what you wrote — Your layout options are remembered after you move them into Figma, even after you change your selection, letting you test a layout over different sized screens, or quickly prototyping variations.





CAN BE USED FOR 



Simple Repetitive Layouts
Web / App Layouts
Creating Lists / Grids
Creating Patterns
Guides For Digital Design
Rapidly Testing Out Various Layouts
Quickly Populating Elements Without CMD+C and CMD+V And Dragging




TO USE



Select a layer to create the grid over, can be a rectangle or a frame.
Enter the amount of cells you want in the Grid column / Grid row fields. You can also enter the size of each cell by writing it manually (separated by spaces) either by using exact values (in points) or by using a total fraction of the grid.
Adjust the Column gap / Row gap to your liking
(Optional) Merge cells to create a more complicated pattern, using the preview menu, drag and drop on the cells you want to create them as a single shape. 
Press the “Apply To Selected” button to insert the grid into Figma.
(Optional) Undo (CTRL / CMD + Z) and change values if not happy with the results.




MORE INFORMATION



Visit our website at https://easygrid-app.web.app/. We also respond to all questions and feedback posted in the comments area. 



---- OLD DESCRIPTION ON FIGMA PLUGIN PAGE ----


(Easy)grid lets you create a grid layout in seconds and place it into Figma without the math. It can also let you quickly align and scale pre-existing elements as layout-items/cells for a quicker design flow. By using the four flexible options (columns, rows, column gap, and row gap) you can write out a layout that is the exact fit and rapidly modify until perfect.

How many times have you had to create a grid or layout, and found yourself spending too much time finding the correct sizes for each element, messing around with spacing to ensure it looks perfect, or having to perfectly align it? This is where the (Easy)grid plugin comes into play.

See https://easygrid-app.web.app/ or continue reading to learn more about the plugin and about how to use it.


FEATURES

🎨 Create layout patterns in seconds ranging from a couple of rows or columns to creating the layout for whole tools and software

🎛 [NEW FEATURE] When applying your layout to the selected layer, you may select more than one layer to populate the layouts' with its cells as the additional layers selected.

💾 [NEW FEATURE] Save your layout and reuse them in other Figma projects to quickly insert your most common layouts

👨‍💻 Reduce mistakes and time needed by not needing to worry about sizing or positioning your layout and letting (easy)grid handle the mathmatical side of things

📲 Insert the layout from the plugin directly over your selected Figma layer in a single click

⏳ Your layout options are remembered after you move them into Figma, and after you change your selection, letting you test a layout over different sized screens, or quickly prototyping variations


[NEW FEATURE] Additionally to being able to save your layouts quickly now, we have also designed 5 presaved layouts, including: Golden Ratio, iPad Split Screen, iPad Threeway Split, iOS App Guide, And a 3x3 Grid.

CAN BE USED FOR 

- Simple Repetitive Layouts
- Web / App Layouts
- Creating Lists / Grids
- Creating Patterns
- Guides For Digital Design
- Rapidly Testing Out Various Layouts
- Quickly Populating Elements Without CMD+C and CMD+V And Dragging


TO USE

Creating A Layout
Select a layer to create the grid over, can be a rectangle or a frame.
Enter the amount of cells you want in the Grid column / Grid row fields. You can also enter the size of each cell by writing it manually (separated by spaces) either by using exact values (in points) or by using a total fraction of the grid.
Adjust the Column gap / Row gap to your liking
If you want to merge cells to create a more complicated pattern, using the preview menu, drag and drop on the cells you want to create them as a single shape. 
Press the “Apply To Selected” button to insert the grid into Figma.
Undo (CTRL / CMD + Z) and change values if not happy with the results.


MORE INFORMATION

Visit our website at https://easygrid-app.web.app/. We also respond to all questions and feedback posted in the comments area. 

